Solid Mechanics Example (#474)
CEED/libCEED: examples/solids/index.rst

.. _example-petsc-elasticity:

Solid mechanics elasticity mini-app
========================================

This example is located in the subdirectory :file:`examples/solids`. It solves
the steady-state static balance momentum equations using unstructured high-order
finite element/spectral element spatial discretizations. Moreover, the solid
mechanics elasticity example has been developed using PETSc, so that the
pointwise physics (defined at quadrature points) is separated from the
parallelization and meshing concerns.

.. _problem-linear-elasticity:

----------------------------------------

The strong form of the static balance linear momentum at small strain for the three-dimensional linear elasticity problem is given by :cite:`hughes2012finite`:

.. math::
   :label: lin-elas
   
   \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{\sigma} + \boldsymbol{g} = \boldsymbol{0} 

where :math:`\boldsymbol{\sigma}`, :math:`\boldsymbol{\epsilon}`

> and :math:`\boldsymbol{g}` are stress, strain, and forcing functions,

Reviewer: Here it reads "where sigma, epsilon, and g are stress, strain" etc, but strain hasn't been introduced in eq. (24). So the definition of the strain and relative symbol has to be pushed right after eq. (25), where it's introduced for the first time.

Reviewer: Or just removed from this sentence, as I see now that it is actually defined on line 50

respectively. Integrating by parts on the divergence term, we arrive at the weak form the of equation :math:numref:`lin-elas`:

.. math::

> 

Reviewer: I would label this equation and reference it later, together with eq. (24) in the first paragraph of the Hyperelasticity at Small Strain section

   \int_{\Omega}{ \nabla \boldsymbol{v} \colon \boldsymbol{\sigma}} dV - \int_{d\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \left(\boldsymbol{\sigma}_t \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{n}}\right)} dS + \int_{\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \boldsymbol{g}} dV = 0

where :math:`\boldsymbol{\sigma}_t \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{n}}` is typically
replaced with a boundary condition.

The stress-strain relationship (constitutive law) is given by:

.. math::
   :label: linear-stress-strain

   \boldsymbol{\sigma} = \mathsf{C} \boldsymbol{\epsilon},

where 

.. math::

   \boldsymbol{\epsilon} = \dfrac{1}{2}\left(\nabla \boldsymbol{u} + \nabla \boldsymbol{u}^T \right)

is the (symmetric) strain tensor.

> For notational convenience, we suppose the symmetric second order tensors :math:`\bm \sigma` and :math:`\bm \epsilon` are expressed as vectors of length 6 using `Voigt notation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_notation>`_, in which case the fourth order material stiffness tensor :math:`\mathsf C` can be represented as a :math:`6\times 6` symmetric matrix

Reviewer: FWIW maybe material stiffness tensor could be confused by someone for the element stiffness matrix? Hughes and other classical authors call this "material moduli matrix" or "elasticity matrix of moduli".

Reviewer 2: Ogden and Wriggers both use "elasticity tensor". "Stiffness" is used sometimes to distinguish from "compliance", though the latter is much less common. People also find this usage sometimes: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hooke%27s_law#Matrix_representation_.28stiffness_tensor.29

I don't think confusion with a finite element stiffness matrix is problematic. I don't like using "matrix" for the mathematical object ("tensor" is better). No strong feelings between "elasticity tensor", "material tensor", "elastic moduli tensor", or the wording in the PR.

.. math::

   \mathsf C = \begin{bmatrix}
   \lambda + 2\mu & \lambda & \lambda & & & \\
   \lambda & \lambda + 2\mu & \lambda & & & \\
   \lambda & \lambda & \lambda + 2\mu & & & \\
   & & & \mu & & \\
   & & & & \mu & \\
   & & & & & \mu
   \end{bmatrix}.

Note that the incompressible limit :math:`\nu \to \frac 1 2` causes :math:`\lambda \to \infty`, and thus :math:`\mathsf C` becomes singular.

.. _problem-hyper-small-strain:

Hyperelasticity at Small Strain
----------------------------------------

The strong form of the static balance linear momentum at small strain for the three-dimensional neo-Hookean Hyperelasticity problem is given by
:cite:`hughes2012finite`:

.. math::

   \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{\sigma} + \boldsymbol{g} = \boldsymbol{0} 

Integrating by parts on the divergence term, we arrive at the weak form:

.. math::

   \int_{\Omega}{ \nabla \boldsymbol{v} \colon \boldsymbol{\sigma}} dV - \int_{d\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \left(\boldsymbol{\sigma}_t \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{n}}\right)} dS + \int_{\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \boldsymbol{g}} dV = 0

where :math:`\boldsymbol{\sigma}_t \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{n}}` is typically replaced with a boundary condition.

> 

Reviewer: I would avoid repeating these lines. The governing equation and weak form are the same. It is only the constitutive law that changes now. See my [comment above](https://github.com/CEED/libCEED/pull/474/files#r395913230)

> The small strain version of a Neo-Hookean hyperelasticity material is given as

Reviewer: Even the first time strain is introduced we should mention that it is small/infinitesimal strain, otherwise it sounds like peculiar to this Neo-Hookean constitutive relationship, and it is not.

Reviewer 2: I stand by my initial recommendation that we introduce the fully nonlinear case first and linearize parts geometry and materials to derive the linear case as a simplified model for testing purposes. (I don't think there will be a big performance difference for a good implementation. Linearization might reduce 2 Newton iterations to 1 and make a modest difference in operator application time.) I don't know if @jeremylt and @ArashMehraban affirmatively didn't like that suggestion or just had this text and didn't want to spend time refactoring it.

Author: It seemed like @ArashMehraban took the lead on the documentation, so I hadn't jumped in to avoid too many cooks. I have no strong opinions here.

Reviewer 2: Yep, and he needs practice writing about this stuff for his paper. I'm happy for it to be in his hands. I (re)wrote the hyperelastic/constitutive modeling section because I felt like it was the most efficient way to communicate about that essential core structure, but I'd like him to help make the whole document fit together. And thanks @valeriabarra for your review and edits.

follows:

.. math::
   :label: clss
   
   \boldsymbol{\sigma} = \lambda \ln(1 + \boldsymbol{\epsilon_v)} \boldsymbol{I}_3 + 2\mu \boldsymbol{\epsilon}

where :math:`\boldsymbol{\sigma}`, :math:`\boldsymbol{\epsilon}`, are stress and
strain, respectively. Strain is defined by

.. math::

   \boldsymbol{\epsilon} = \dfrac{1}{2}\left(\nabla \boldsymbol{u} + \nabla \boldsymbol{u}^T \right)

> 

Reviewer: I would remove these lines too. The symbols and nomenclature have not changed since these symbols have been introduced above.

> where :math:`\bm u` is the displacement and :math:`\mu` and  :math:`\lambda` are the Lamé parameters.

Reviewer: Sorry, I deleted the comment and retyped it here, because I had accidentally dragged a wrong initial line. Here it is :
I would remove these lines too. The symbols and nomenclature have not changed since these symbols have been introduced above.

> where :math:`\bm u` is the displacement and :math:`\mu` and  :math:`\lambda` are the Lamé parameters.

Reviewer: Sorry, I deleted the comment and retyped it here, because I had accidentally dragged a wrong initial line. Here it is :
I would remove these lines too. The symbols and nomenclature have not changed since these symbols have been introduced above.

Reviewer: If the multi-line comment doesn't render (sometimes it happens to me), I mean lines 123-130 here.

   The effect of these linearizations is sketched in the diagram below, where :math:`\bm \sigma` and :math:`\bm \epsilon` are stress and strain, respectively, in the small strain regime, while :math:`\bm S` and :math:`\bm E` are their finite-strain generalizations (second Piola-Kirchoff tensor and Green-Lagrange strain tensor, respectively) defined in the reference configuration, and :math:`\mathsf C` is a linearized constitutive model.

   .. math::
      \begin{matrix}
      \text{Finite Strain Hyperelastic} & \underset{\bm S = \mathsf C \bm E}{\overset{\text{constitutive}}{\longrightarrow}} & \text{St. Venant-Kirchoff} \\
      \text{\scriptsize geometric} {\LARGE \ \downarrow\ } \scriptsize{\bm E \to \bm \epsilon} & & \text{\scriptsize geometric} {\LARGE \ \downarrow\ } \scriptsize{\bm E \to \bm \epsilon} \\
      \text{Small Strain Hyperelastic} & \underset{\bm \sigma = \mathsf C \bm \epsilon}{\overset{\text{constitutive}}{\longrightarrow}} & \text{Linear Elastic} \\
      \end{matrix}

.. _running-elasticity:

Running the mini-app
----------------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   README

.. include:: README.rst

>    :start-after: inclusion-marker-do-not-remove

Author: This is rendering correctly in HTML but not PDF.

Reviewer: If something deosn't render properly in one build or another, and you want to exclude that directive from one specific build, you can use the `.. only:: html` for instance or `.. only:: latexf`, as we've done to exlude the mermaid graph in the API doc that was not rendering correctly in the PDF build

   .. math::
      \begin{matrix}
      \text{Finite Strain Hyperelastic} & \underset{\bm S = \mathsf C \bm E}{\overset{\text{constitutive}}{\LARGE \longrightarrow}} & \text{St. Venant-Kirchoff} \\
      \text{\scriptsize geometric} {\LARGE \ \downarrow\ } \scriptsize{\bm E \to \bm \epsilon} & & \text{\scriptsize geometric} {\LARGE \ \downarrow\ } \scriptsize{\bm E \to \bm \epsilon} \\
      \text{Small Strain Hyperelastic} & \underset{\bm \sigma = \mathsf C \bm \epsilon}{\overset{\text{constitutive}}{\LARGE \longrightarrow}} & \text{Linear Elastic} \\
      \end{matrix}

.. _running-elasticity:

Running the mini-app
----------------------------------------

There are five required command line options and a variety of additional command line options for this mini-app.

> The four required command line options are :code:`-mesh`, :code:`-degree`, :code:`-E`, and :code:`-nu`. Additionally, at least one boundary condition must be set, using :code:`-bc_zero` or :code:`-bc_clamp`.

Author: I am incrementally building a single example, but I didn't explain that well. Updated.

To set the ExodusII mesh file, use the :code:`-mesh` option and the file path to the mesh file::

>    ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo

Author: https://github.com/ArashMehraban/CeedPetscSolid/tree/master/meshes
or
https://github.com/jeremylt/ceedSampleMeshes
We have a bunch of meshes here. Would either of these work?

>    ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo

Reviewer: To even just run the code with a given mesh a user would need Cubit?

>    ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo

Author: Cubit is only required to generate a mesh.

>    ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo

Reviewer 2: Your repository is fine. Better not to mix up access to meshes with the legacy version of the code.

>    ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo

Reviewer: That is what I thought. But then I'm not entirely following why not to push at least the meshes mentioned in the sample runs, or as Jed said to make them available for download somewhere and document that, specifying the proper instructions to run the example. Otherwise one would just copy and paste this sample run and it would crash

>    ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo

Author: Updated with a link.

To set the 

To set the polynomial order of the finite element basis, use the :code:`-degree` option::

   ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo -degree 4

To set the materiel parameters, use the :code:`-E` and :code:`-nu` options, for Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio, respectively::

   ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo -degree 4 -E 1e6 -nu 0.3

To set the boundary conditions, use :code:`-bc_zero` or :code:`-bc_clamp` followed by a comma separated list of the constrained faces::

   ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo -degree 4 -E 1e6 -nu 0.3 -bc_zero 999 -bc_clamp 998

These command line options are the minimum requirements for the mini-app, but additional options may also be set.
For example, the materiel model (:code:`-problem`), forcing term (:code:`-forcing`), libCEED backend resource (:code:`-ceed`) can be specified::

   ./elasticity -mesh ./meshes/meshes/cylinder8_672e_4ss_us.exo -degree 4 -E 1e6 -nu 0.3 -bc_zero 999 -bc_clamp 998 -problem hyperFS -forcing none -ceed /cpu/self/opt/blocked

> The full list of command line options is detailed in the :file:`README` file in the :file:`examples/solids` subdirectory.

Reviewer 2: Can we convert the README to rst so we can link it here too?

   \right]  = 
   \left[
     \begin{array}{cccccc} 
       2 \mu +\bar{\lambda} & \bar{\lambda} & \bar{\lambda} & & & \\
       \bar{\lambda} & 2 \mu +\bar{\lambda} & \bar{\lambda} & & & \\
       \bar{\lambda} & \bar{\lambda} & 2 \mu +\bar{\lambda} & & & \\
       & & & 2 \mu & & \\    
       & & & & 2 \mu & \\

>        & & & & & 2 \mu \\   

Reviewer 2: Note that the original was correct if you use the scaling of Voigt notation. If you're just ordering without the scaling convention (which won't match textbooks), then the matrices in the linear elasticity section need to also have their scaling updated. This equation should also use `\begin{pmatrix}`. Cc: @ArashMehraban

Reviewer 3: @jeremylt  I think this order:
d\sigma_11 , d\sigma_22, d\sigma_33, d\sigma_12, d\sigma_13, d\sigma_23
should be changed to:
 d\sigma_11 , d\sigma_22, d\sigma_33, d\sigma_23, d\sigma_13, d\sigma_12

Reviewer 2: This comment and diagram may be useful, and the narrative could be adjusted to introduce it earlier.
![Screenshot_20200323_222831](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3303/77388415-a7051f80-6d55-11ea-9535-60c77be70f44.png)

I'll let one of you repair the currently-inconsistent Voigt-like scaling between the linear and small-strain sections.

Reviewer 2: I expanded the numerical stability note, and this will allow removing some code in `hyperFS.h`.
![Screenshot_20200324_103435](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3303/77452050-16f9c100-6dbb-11ea-88a2-635b4abc394f.png)

Reviewer 2: To make the point about numerical stability, consider this demo. If you choose single precision, neither of these quantities will have the first digit correct. `H` here is meant to represent `\nabla_X u`.
![Screenshot_20200324_100501](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3303/77453303-b66b8380-6dbc-11ea-9fc2-34e9c8484840.png)

Author: Updated - on my machine this is faster for larger nu and slower for smaller nu, compared to the previous formulation.

Reviewer 2: "slower"? Perhaps a Newton bug? I'll comment on this patch.

Reviewer 2: Well, I deleted some unnecessary code. We're getting poor vectorization of the quadrature loop, but the code looks good to me. Can you give me two cases to compare to see slower for small nu?

Author: It's better than it was, so something must have been going in the background on my machine.

There is now a small consistent performance difference on the 672 element mesh (~3-5 more seconds), but I think that's because on this mesh I'm getting the same number of SNES iterations and what looks to the about the same number of KSP iterations, but with slightly more computations in the QFunction. I don't seem to be in a region where the extra stability is helping cut iterations with higher accuracy.

Reviewer 2: This choice isn't about cutting iterations for these large-deformation problems, but rather being able to solve small-deformation problems to high relative accuracy despite using the FS formulation. Our vectorization is held up entirely because `log1p` from `libc` isn't vectorized. We get decently vectorized code if we replace it with a local approximation (and almost double the end-to-end performance).
```
00000000000131b9 <HyperFSdF+0xcc9> vfmadd231pd ymm9,ymm1,ymm3
00000000000131be <HyperFSdF+0xcce> vfmadd231pd ymm14,ymm1,ymm2
00000000000131c3 <HyperFSdF+0xcd3> vfmadd231pd ymm9,ymm15,ymm4
00000000000131c8 <HyperFSdF+0xcd8> vfmadd231pd ymm14,ymm15,ymm6
00000000000131cd <HyperFSdF+0xcdd> vmovapd YMMWORD PTR [rsp+0x288],ymm9
00000000000131d6 <HyperFSdF+0xce6> vmulpd ymm9,ymm13,ymm7
00000000000131da <HyperFSdF+0xcea> vmulpd ymm13,ymm13,ymm4
00000000000131de <HyperFSdF+0xcee> vfmadd231pd ymm9,ymm0,ymm3
00000000000131e3 <HyperFSdF+0xcf3> vfmadd231pd ymm13,ymm0,ymm2
00000000000131e8 <HyperFSdF+0xcf8> vmovapd ymm0,YMMWORD PTR [rsp+0x1e8]
00000000000131f1 <HyperFSdF+0xd01> vmulpd ymm0,ymm0,YMMWORD PTR [rsp-0x58]
00000000000131f7 <HyperFSdF+0xd07> vfmadd231pd ymm9,ymm12,ymm4
00000000000131fc <HyperFSdF+0xd0c> vfmadd231pd ymm13,ymm12,ymm6
0000000000013201 <HyperFSdF+0xd11> vmovapd YMMWORD PTR [rsp+0x228],ymm9
000000000001320a <HyperFSdF+0xd1a> vmulpd ymm9,ymm11,ymm7
000000000001320e <HyperFSdF+0xd1e> vmulpd ymm11,ymm11,ymm4
0000000000013212 <HyperFSdF+0xd22> vfmadd231pd ymm9,ymm5,ymm3
0000000000013217 <HyperFSdF+0xd27> vfmadd231pd ymm11,ymm5,ymm2
000000000001321c <HyperFSdF+0xd2c> vfmadd231pd ymm9,ymm10,ymm4
0000000000013221 <HyperFSdF+0xd31> vfmadd132pd ymm10,ymm11,ymm6
0000000000013226 <HyperFSdF+0xd36> vmovapd ymm11,YMMWORD PTR [rsp+0x408]
000000000001322f <HyperFSdF+0xd3f> vsubpd ymm11,ymm11,YMMWORD PTR [rsp+0x328]
```

We don't have to resolve this now, but [SVML](https://software.intel.com/en-us/cpp-compiler-developer-guide-and-reference-intrinsics-for-logarithmic-operations-512-bit) has a vectorized `log1p` that we could work out how to call. Alternatively, we can rejigger the portable code to help the compiler vectorize despite the fact that _that_ part can't vectorize. That would probably involve some manual tiling.
```diff
diff --git i/examples/solids/qfunctions/hyperFS.h w/examples/solids/qfunctions/hyperFS.h
index 48dd06da..8bb443bc 100644
--- i/examples/solids/qfunctions/hyperFS.h
+++ w/examples/solids/qfunctions/hyperFS.h
@@ -176,7 +176,7 @@ CEED_QFUNCTION(HyperFSF)(void *ctx, CeedInt Q, const CeedScalar *const *in,
     // *INDENT-ON*
 
     // Compute the Second Piola-Kirchhoff (S)
-    const CeedScalar llnj = lambda*log1p(detC_m1)/2.;
+    const CeedScalar llnj = lambda*detC_m1/2.;
     const CeedScalar S00 = llnj*Cinv[0][0] +
                            mu*(Cinv[0][0]*E2[0][0] + Cinv[0][1]*E2[1][0] +
                                Cinv[0][2]*E2[2][0]),
@@ -371,7 +371,7 @@ CEED_QFUNCTION(HyperFSdF)(void *ctx, CeedInt Q, const CeedScalar *const *in,
     // *INDENT-ON*
 
     // Compute the Second Piola-Kirchhoff (S)
-    const CeedScalar llnj = lambda*log1p(detC_m1)/2.;
+    const CeedScalar llnj = lambda*detC_m1/2.;
     const CeedScalar S00 = llnj*Cinv[0][0] +
                            mu*(Cinv[0][0]*E2[0][0] + Cinv[0][1]*E2[1][0] +
                                Cinv[0][2]*E2[2][0]),
```

Author: Would a second or third order approximation provide sufficient accuracy and allow for vectorization?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, definitely possible. This series is probably the one to use. The modeling error for any real material will almost certainly be larger than the approximation error.

What's your feeling about factoring utility functions into static inline functions that we call from qfunctions? I don't think there's a portability problem with that and it would allow a lot less duplicated code between the HyperFSF and HyperFSdF.
![Screenshot_20200324_202713](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3303/77495322-d8d9bd00-6e0d-11ea-87c6-cd78caf3f159.png)

Author: I unrolled the loop in that series and now we have a much faster hyperFS.

and the Green-Lagrange strain tensor

.. math::
   :label: eq-non-linear-strain

   \bm E = \frac 1 2 (\bm C - \bm I_3) = \frac 1 2 \Big( \nabla_X \bm u + (\nabla_X \bm u)^T + (\nabla_X \bm u)^T \nabla_X \bm u \Big),

the latter of which converges to the linear strain tensor :math:`\bm \epsilon` in the small-deformation limit.
The constitutive models considered, appropriate for large deformations, express :math:`\bm S` as a function of :math:`\bm E`, similar to the linear case, showed in equation  :math:numref:`linear-stress-strain`, which  expresses the relationship between :math:`\bm\sigma` and :math:`\bm\epsilon`.

> Equation :math:numref:`eq-non-linear-strain` represents a nonlinear tensor-valued function of a tensor-valued input, but an arbitrary choice of such a function will generally not be invariant under orthogonal transformations, thus will not admissible because a physical model must not depend on the choice of coordinate system chosen to express it.

Reviewer 2: "This" referred to `S(E)` in the previous sentence, not the definition of `E` (which isn't a choice). I'm editing now so no need for you to fix.

Reviewer: Sorry. Yes, I misunderstood. In fact, it's better to avoid "this" when 2 things are introduced in the previous sentence.

Reviewer 2: Thanks; agreed.

Weak form
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is crucial to distinguish between the current and reference element in the Total Lagrangian Finite Strain regime.

.. math::

>     \int_{\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \left(\nabla_X \cdot \boldsymbol{P} + J \rho \boldsymbol{g}\right)} dV = \boldsymbol{0}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \int_{\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \left(\nabla_X \cdot \boldsymbol{P} + \rho_0 \boldsymbol{g}\right)} dV = \boldsymbol{0}
```
We don't know `\rho` in the current configuration (because it depends on the solution), only `\rho_0`.

Reviewer 2: It warrants a comment that the body force depends on the current configuration and needs to be mapped back to the initial configuration. This is another form of nonlinearity.

> By Integration by part we arrive at the weak form:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integrating by parts, we arrive at the weak form:
```

Reviewer: I took care of that.

.. math::

    \int_{\Omega}{\nabla_X \boldsymbol{v} \colon \boldsymbol{P}}dV =
  - \int_{\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \rho_0 \boldsymbol{g}}dV
  - \int_{\partial \Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \boldsymbol{P} \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{N}}}dA
    
where :math:`\boldsymbol{P} \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{N}}` is a prescribed boundary written in terms of reference
configuration.

> The constitutive law in indicial notation is given by:

Reviewer 2: The text below here should be revised to carry on the narrative from above.

Reviewer: I took care of that (I think).

    \int_{\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \left(\nabla_X \cdot \boldsymbol{P} + J \rho \boldsymbol{g}\right)} dV = \boldsymbol{0}

Integrating by parts, we arrive at the weak form:

.. math::

    \int_{\Omega}{\nabla_X \boldsymbol{v} \colon \boldsymbol{P}}dV =
  - \int_{\Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \rho_0 \boldsymbol{g}}dV
  - \int_{\partial \Omega}{\boldsymbol{v} \cdot \boldsymbol{P} \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{N}}}dA
    
where :math:`\boldsymbol{P} \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{N}}` is a prescribed boundary
condition written in terms of the reference configuration.

For simplicity, we express here the constitutive law in indicial notation:

.. math::

>    P_{iI} = F_{iB}S_{BI}\, ,

Reviewer 2: I'm just curious, but is this a rendering issue on your end? It's easy to forget this convention and it makes the math noisier to always have to throw in the extra bit of space `\,`. A raw comma looks fine to my eye.

Reviewer: No it's just that especially when there are terms with subscripts in the equations, the comma or semicolon tend to be too close to them. Just a matter of aesthetics. Can be removed of course.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, seems fair to add them (when we remember) after equations that end in subscript. No need to spend more time on this point.

> so that we can define its Jacobian (or stiffness) fourth order tensor as

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I find this confusing terminology here. The analog of the linear elasticity tensor would be `\mathsf C = dS/dE`, e.g., as described here by Wriggers (the irritating factors of 2 evaporate if you use Green-Lagrange strain E instead of right Cauchy-Green tensor C).
![Screenshot_20200320_174203](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3303/77213891-1d91eb00-6ad2-11ea-881a-b0bb187fc4f0.png)

Reviewer: I agree the "(stiffness)" part could be confusing, in relation to what you called stiffness tensor above. I used the Hughes classical terminology of "material moduli matrix" or "elasticity matrix of moduli" in the past, for which this now would lead to no confusion regarding the stiffness (if this is what you meant). We can also use the incremental terminology as Wriggers does. (I have used algorithmic, too, when expressing discrete stress/strain relationships). But in any case, the existing terminology was not adequate in my opinion.

Reviewer 2: I agree that rewording is needed. I'd prefer consistency with the linear terminology, so call this the incremental elasticity tensor or whatever. We can leave this for @ArashMehraban to think about.

where :math:`\boldsymbol{P} \cdot \hat{\boldsymbol{N}}` is a prescribed boundary
condition written in terms of the reference configuration.

> Equation :math:numref:`1st2nd` devises a method to model a hyperelastic solid with a Neo-Hookean constitutive law. Evaluatinig the derivative of this model, yields a forth order tensor:

Reviewer 2: That equation is just a definition, `P = F S`. It isn't a method. It also isn't clear in this context why you are computing this derivative.

.. math::
   :label: mtfs

>    \dfrac{\partial \bm P}{\partial \bm F} = \bm S + \left[ \lambda \bm F^{-1} \bm F^{-1} \left(\lambda \log(J) - \mu \right) \left(\bm F^{-1}\bm F^{-1} + \bm C^{-1} \right) \right]

Reviewer 2: FWIW, I prefer to write linearizations in delta form. That is, I'd write `\frac{\partial P}{\partial F} \delta F` where `\delta F` becomes the Newton step you're solving for. For the sake of interpretability, it can be useful to split terms,
```
\frac{\partial P}{\partial F} \delta F = \delta F S + F \frac{\partial S}{\partial E} \delta E
```
where `\delta E = \frac{\partial E}{\partial F} \delta F` and then you can focus on writing down `\frac{\partial S}{\partial E} \delta E`, which is the important interpretable part. This is also the way I would write the code, BTW. (I expect there will be interest in adding different hyperelastic models, so factoring the code well is important.)

with

.. math::
   

>    \bm C^{-1} = \bm F^{-1} \bm F^{-T}

Reviewer 2: We've already defined `C` and I'm not sure you ever need `F^{-1}` on its own, just `C^{-1}`

Reviewer 3: @jedbrown I have pushed the latest for the symbolic version of the material derivative for hyper FS (equation 35). According to Rich the two tensor product symbols in that equation should be different. Any preference on that?

Reviewer 2: Please have a read through how I would write it
https://libceed.readthedocs.io/en/jeremy-solids-example/examples/solids/index.html#newton-linearization

Please also read my discussion of implementation. I'll add some review notes in `hyperFS.h` because I think this can be made much faster.

Reviewer 3: @jedbrown @jeremylt 
BTW, the derivation of the material derivative in indicial notation is as follows:
![fs-dirv-1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10523693/77261771-9e79ef80-6c56-11ea-88a4-9ea548ab279e.png)
![fs-dirv-2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10523693/77261776-a33ea380-6c56-11ea-8bd8-8d230b5fb6ed.png)
![fs-dirv-3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10523693/77261779-a5a0fd80-6c56-11ea-9a4f-44ac04bd8488.png)

Reviewer 2: I added a derivation of this form in the bottom note here, along with explanation of why the `dS` form (41) is preferable in computation.
![Screenshot_20200323_152545](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3303/77364779-91263900-6d1a-11ea-82f0-5df8d4e2c386.png)
